[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Planet Earth.
According to radiometric
dating, this planet
is roughly 4.5
billion years old.
Modern day scholars
claim that civilization
began roughly between
5,000 and 6,000 years ago.
Geological records show that
severely erratic weather
patterns were present on
the planet roughly 12,000
years ago.
Countless myths and legends
from around the planet
depict a time of
complete chaos that
destroyed all civilizations
on the planet.
The deluge.
The cataclysm.
The event.
The end of the world.
Along with these great
fables, ancient sites
like Gobekli Tepe in
Turkey, Easter Island
in the South Pacific, South
America, Giza plateau, Japan,
and India contain a level
of sophistication and design
that baffles the minds of
scholars and scientists.
Most of these sacred
sites have foundations
composed of stones weighing
in excess of 30 tons that
defy our human understanding.
If civilization only happened
roughly 5,000 to 6,000 years
ago, then who built these
foundational wonders
in prediluvian times that
were designed to survive
the end of the world?
And what were those
beings who inhabited
the Earth long before
the flood trying
to tell us about our
connection to the cosmos?
We turn to science for answers
to help unravel the mystery.
But when we look below the
surface, the laws of physics
appear to have been mastered
long before humanity
began to figure them out.
>> Science is a living body of
information that's not static.
It's not fixed.
It's designed to be
constantly updated when
new discoveries come to light.
We've got to incorporate
those discoveries
into the pre-existing
scientific story.
We're writing a new
story right now.
We have to because
the evidence no longer
supports the story of the past.
The evidence no longer
supports the theory
that civilization for
example, began between 5,000
and 5,500 years ago.
The evidence no longer supports
that civilization's rise
has been linear that we began
with primitive settlements
and primitive ways
of building society
and have gradually come
to where we are today
in a linear fashion.
So when we're thinking
about our past,
we have to constantly
update the story.
There is a continuity in
the stories that cannot be
dismissed.
One of those continuities is
the story of the great flood.
This is where our
new story begins.
>> So when we're talking
prediluvian times,
do we mean antediluvian?
Because diluvian means the
deluge, the great flood,
and pre of course means before.
But when we say antediluvian,
it is ante as in anterior,
in front of, the anterior
chain of your body.
So when we say
antediluvian it is
in front of the great deluge.
So when we say prediluvian
and antediluvian,
we know that this is the time
period before the great flood.
They're one and the same.
>> In the beginning, after a
great devastation according
to the Sumerian texts, the
gods came and manifested humans
again.
And this is a theme that
we see repeated many times
in many cultures
all over the world,
that there was a
creation of humans.
There was a massive flood,
and the Earth was repopulated.
That's reflected in the
Babylonian texts and the Hebrew
text and the Egyptian texts.
They all mention
something similar.
>> When you do a deep survey
into the myths from around
the world, you actually find
that there are two different
flood narratives that happened.
And so in the very
first flood narrative,
it talks about a dark
world or a beginning
and the end of an age.
And then there's this cataclysm
and this flood occurs.
And the individual
escapes the flood
with the 7 sages,
the 7 Abigails.
And then after that, it is the
beginning of this golden age
and this new period of time.
With Noah flood, there's
civilization that is occurring
and the flood
happens because they
are trying to wipe
out the wickedness
from on the planet, like you
find in the biblical narrative.
And Noah survives the flood
and there's no mention
of these 7 sages or 7 Abigails.
>> So in South America we have
the tradition of Viracocha,
who was a builder God had
suddenly shows up mysteriously
after a global flood
wiped everything out.
And he appears in
specific locations
with a group of
seven specialists.
They're experts in their fields
because wherever civilization
appears on the face of
the Earth after the flood
there is always one
charismatic leader who
leads seven craftspeople,
experts in their field.
>> Throughout the ages in
mythology and spiritual
traditions, there are several
common themes that keep
repeating.
But the ancient cycles
encoded in nature
as well as embedded
in myth remind us
that if we are to
survive on this planet,
we must be prepared
to change and adapt.
>> There are common themes
that run through all of these
stories.
One of those themes
is that civilization
is cyclic rather than linear.
That there have been previous
cycles of civilization
that have lasted for
approximately 5,000 years.
Something happens, those
cycles come to an end,
a new cycle begins.
This is where it gets
really interesting.
Because even though
the cycles change,
there appears to be a
continuity of knowledge,
a continuity of wisdom when
it comes to the end of one
cycle in the
beginning of the next.
The Mayans divided
one precession
of the equinoxes,
the 26,000 year cycle
approximately into five
5,125 year long cycles.
Each of those cycles
when they begin something
happens to the civilization
during that time.
And one of the questions
that historians have asked
is, could there be something
that drives these cycles?
Is there a cosmological
phenomenon?
Is there a climactic phenomenon?
Is there a geologic phenomenon?
Maybe it's a convergence
of all of these phenomenon,
something happens
every 5,125 years.
Well, if we take
the year 2012 is
the end of one 5,125 year long
cycle and we go back in time
to the 5,000 years
previously, this
would be the time
that we traditionally
have been taught that
civilization began in,
5,500 years ago.
Now, new discoveries are
revealing the remnants
of ancient civilizations that
predate that 5,000 years many,
many times.
>> One of the things that's
echoed in the ancient stories
around the world, whether or
not it's Plato talking about
Atlantis or the ancient
Egyptians and the Temple
of Sais is that we find that
they discuss how these events
have come in many
different ways.
They discuss how
the civilizations
have been destroyed from
periods of great flooding,
but also extreme heat and fire.
So it's not just
about one thing,
it's about a totality of all
of these different catastrophic
events that have led
to the disappearance
and destruction of these
predeluvian civilizations.
And the way that we have
the telltale evidence
is that a lot of these
ancient megalithic structures
from the predeluvian
civilizations
they left behind is that we find
what's known as vitrification
on the surface.
Whether or not it's
Egypt or Peru or Turkey.
And what that means is
that those granite blocks
in the quartz that
was in them literally
melted from such an extreme heat
event that in order to do that,
you have to have temperatures
on the surface that would
have exceeded 2,000 degrees.
>> Researchers and mythological
heroes on a journey have long
looked to the sky for answers
to explain what happened
in the past.
But most spiritual traditions
and mythical journeys
carry core messages
that inspire us to also
go within to find our answers.
Starting in the
early 20th century,
scientists have been
studying ice core samples
from the polar regions of
the planet from 1989 to 1995.
The Greenland Ice Core
Project conducted experiments
to understand the
climate patterns
in that area for approximately
the past 100,000 years.
Again, in 1998, the
collaborative ice drilling
project at the Russian Vostok
station in East Antarctica
uncovered the
deepest ice core ever
recorded revealing climate
data for approximately
the past 420,000 years.
Then in 2017, an ice core
taken from the blue ice
field in the Allen
Hills of Antarctica
revealed ice dating to
roughly 2.7 million years old.
These studies provide geologists
with a clear understanding
of the cyclical nature of
Earth's climate and weather
patterns.
Geologists refer to the
past and current epics
as the Pleistocene
and the Holocene.
>> The Pleistocene epic began
about 2.8 million years ago.
And this is the sheets
of ice that we often
talk about covered North
America, the Greenland Northern
Europe.
That period, that epic,
ended about 11,500 years ago
as we began the current
epic that we're in now
which is called the Holocene.
However, when we go from
one epic to another,
it's not a clean break,
there's a transition period.
There's a buffer between
the two and that buffer
is the mystery that helps us
to understand what happened
in these ancient civilizations.
Between 12,800 years ago
and 11,600 years ago,
that little window of time is
an extraordinary period of time
that geologists call
the Younger Dryas.
There are plant species
that only exist in cold.
One of those plants
is called the Dryas,
and this is where the term
the Younger Dryas comes from.
There is evidence
of the Younger Dryas
far down into North America
and down into Northern Europe
suggesting that these
were cold temperatures
during this period of time.
And when the temperatures
began to warm,
the plants disappear
from that period of time.
In the late Pleistocene,
the time of the ice,
the Ice Age peaked about
20,000 years before present.
And the temperatures
began to warm.
The warming melted the ice.
Then something happened that
is a mystery to this day.
The warming stopped
and all of a sudden
the temperatures dropped.
They plunged about
5 degrees Celsius
over the entire
Northern Hemisphere.
And in that shift
the temperatures
plunged for a period of
time about 1,200 years.
>> There are many theories
around what caused these
drastic climate changes of
the Younger Dryas period.
One of the prevailing theories
is named the Clovis comet
hypothesis, claiming that
fragments of a large asteroid
or comet struck the planet.
Another theory involves
a cataclysmic event
in our solar system, currently
between Mars and Jupiter,
is what is referred to
as the asteroid belt.
Throughout antiquity, numerous
astronomers and researchers
have speculated that this is a
result of a previously existing
planet that was destroyed.
In the ancient Babylonian
cuneiform text,
the Enuma Elish,
this watery planet
described as being similar to
Earth is referred to as Tiamat.
Throughout history,
this mysterious planet
has been given other names such
as Planet V, Phaeton, Maldek,
and Moloch.
If there was a planet
that was destroyed,
could some of the debris
from that massive explosion
have fallen to Earth
creating massive changes
to the balance of our planet?
>> Recent evidence has revealed
that Earth was hit multiple
times during this period of time
with something from the cosmos.
It is believed to be a
comet for this reason.
If it were an
asteroid, the asteroid
would have a single impact
that would be more localized.
But what we're finding
is that whatever
it that was coming into Earth's
atmosphere was fragmented
and it broke up and scattered
across multiple continents
at the same time.
The mineral platinum,
for example,
is relatively rare on Earth,
but you find it in comets.
As far as south as
South Africa, there
are remnants
fragments of platinum
from this comet breakup
that matched those that
are found in Northern Europe.
A large crater has
been found in Greenland
for precisely the same time.
So when we look at the theories
of what triggered the Younger
Dryas, it may be that the
impact of the comet and the heat
generated by that impact,
thousands and thousands
of degrees, created a rapid melt
to cool the water in the North
Atlantic.
>> One of the things we find is
that ocean levels dramatically
rose from before the predeluvian
period of 13,000 years ago.
And we know that looking at
geologic and climatological
records, whether or
not it's ice cores
or looking at geologic evidence.
What we find is that
during this time period,
we had glaciation in North
America and in Europe
where we had massive ice caps.
So when we combine cataclysmic
events in our solar system,
as mentioned in the Enuma Elish,
with massive amounts of rain
as well as melting
of the ice caps,
all that water flooded
into the ocean,
raising sea levels
up to 400 feet,
flooding and submerging
ancient cities and structures
around the world.
>> The Atlantic Ocean is home
to the global conveyor belt.
Starting from the surface
water around the North Pole,
this circulation system pulls
water from the North Pole
and cycles it all
throughout the planet.
>> So when we're looking at the
mystery of the Younger Dryas,
what we know for certain is that
there was a dilution of fresh
water in cold water that changed
the thermohaline properties
of the ocean conveyor
of the Atlantic.
We know that because of the
proxies and the temperature.
The mystery is,
what single factor
or what multiple
factors may have
contributed to that cooling?
The meltwater from North
America, from the ice melting
was behind a large ice wall.
And the evidence shows
that ice wall broke.
And when it broke, there
was a tremendous onslaught
of that cold water, a
massive flood in a relatively
short period of time.
What may have triggered
that could have
been the impact from the comet.
>> As the mystery
continues around the origin
of the deluge, what can
ancient mythology tell us about
the changing relationship
between humans and the gods
around these chaotic times?
>> Prior to the flood, there
is this global narrative that
occurs.
And the stories are
extremely consistent
regardless of the culture
that you're looking at.
Post-flood, it changes into more
local myths or the perspective
of the myths change.
In the earlier myths it's
the stories of the gods.
They're vying for power
with each other and fighting
and you're part of the
action of the gods.
Once the flood happens, it
becomes stories of humanity
and their connection
to the gods.
And so it's just a really
big change that happens.
>> One thing that is starting
to crystallize among researchers
of our ancient past, especially
the pre-flood times is
the number of
places, of temples,
that are rebuilt on
previous temple sites.
We find this in Egypt,
we find it at Stonehenge,
and we also find it at Dwarka.
And what this suggests
is that the ancients knew
of the original locations of
temples in the pre-flood times,
marked those locations,
and then after the flood
or after this great
cataclysm returned
to those exact same sites.
This suggests that there
is something inherently
special about Dwarka and
some of these other sites
that was known to either the
ancient gods that inhabited
it or they passed this knowledge
along to humans prompting them
to rebuild on these
specific sites.
>> We know that the Ice Age
essentially ended about 12,000
BP, before present.
But what is often missed is
that when the Ice Age ended,
not only did the
ice continue to melt
but there was a tremendous
shift in the climate.
And with this shift
in global climate
comes a shift in local weather.
The shifts in the
weather were called
unsettled weather
patterns that lasted
approximately 4,000 years.
So beginning from 12,000
years BP, before present,
to 8,000 years BP,
this was a period
where Earth saw torrential rains
in some places, extreme drought
in other places.
And with those torrential
rains from the storms,
torrential erosion that left
impacts and effects that we're
still seeing today that impact
not only archeological remains
and remnants of
archeological remains,
but also the landform itself.
>> This mysterious time in
history continues to challenge
mythologists, scholars,
and scientists.
From the erosion patterns
around the Sphinx
in Giza to the sunken cities off
the coasts of Japan and India,
water has played a major role
in the evolution and destruction
of civilizations on this planet.
When we begin to study the
sites around the world that
were built before
these great cataclysms,
archeologists
continue to discover
that they were built
with a purpose that
is beyond our understanding.
Powerful clues point to a
strong cosmic connection
with the builders
and the locations
of these archeological
wonders leaving
behind carved
connections linking
these ancient prediluvian
cultures from all
over the planet.
>> So this is where we get
to the work of David Talbott,
who noticed around the Younger
Dryas period that there were
some major cataclysmic
electrical events going on all
over the planet.
That there were these
plasma discharges
that could be from solar
flares or other form
of celestial activity
causing these plasma bursts
throughout our atmosphere.
And they noticed that
the Mohenjo-daro,
they recorded those exact same
shapes of those plasma bursts.
And it didn't stop there.
There are petroglyphs
all over the world
with the same exact
shapes telling us
that this was a worldwide
plasma event that was documented
and recorded by
countless cultures,
including the people of Easter
Island and their Rongorongo
script.
>> We begin to look at
ancient cosmology and archival
astronomy.
What we find is from the
Mayans to the Egyptians
to the Aboriginals in Australia
to an ancient European site
and all through
Mesoamerica, there
was a knowledge of
our relationship
to the cosmos that
exceeded anything
that's been known in history
until the mid 20th century.
>> Constellations feature
throughout alignments with
their ancient sites.
The two go hand in hand.
It was looking to the
Earth for her energy system
and looking to particular
constellations.
So I think the river
of space, if you will,
the river that
flows from Orion--
especially Orion
is the focus point
here between the Milky Way and
between the celestial river.
>> An understanding of
the constellations around
the planet provides solid
evidence in deciphering
the possible time and
purpose of these sites.
When modern researchers began
discovering cosmic connections
to powerful ancient
civilizations,
the evidence began
guiding us to the stars
as our major influence in the
evolution of civilizations
on this planet.
As the archeologists
and scholars
examine several of these
sacred celestial sites
around the world there
is one unifying clue
that teaches us the power
of interconnection, massive
stones.
>> When we look at ancient
cultures around the world,
especially those that we can
identify have the prediluvian
megalithic sophistication
on those foundations,
when we look at the stories
that are left behind,
whether or not it's written in
cuneiform tablets or carried
down through oral records,
they all seem to tell a very
similar, if not the same
story of these great set
of catastrophes and floods that
seem to have destroyed those
civilizations and left behind
those megalithic foundation
bases for us to find thousands
and thousands of years later.
Whether or not it's
all the way from Asia
and places in Japan all the
way across the world to Peru
and Bolivia, and
Egypt and Turkey,
we find a very specific
style of building
that is present on
almost always the lower
levels of ancient
temples and structures.
Where it shows a high
level of sophistication.
That's unlike anything
that's above it.
Something that truly stands out
with a sophistication and style
that is almost perfect and
something that we may not even
be able to do today with the
tools that we have available.
Something that's so precise that
some of the blocks that are in
position a human hair can't
even slip between them.
>> Comparing the prediluvian
construction from all over
the planet, not only challenges
the mainstream theory
of the origins of civilization
but solidifies the evidence
of an interconnection of
knowledge between cultures long
before the great deluge.
Who were these beings with
this advanced building
knowledge that could move
these massive stones?
The question is no longer if
these sacred megalithic sites
around the planet were built
before the great flood.
The greater mystery is
how long before the flood
were they built?
>> In a number of myths, one of
the things we find it is that
there's no cultural memory in
humanity of how they made these
megalithic structures.
There is no recollection of
the engineering technology
that's required to
create these structures
and lift stones a certain way.
Because it wasn't
their technology,
it was the god's technology.
And so that's why we
can't do it again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Etched in the human psyche
are stories of struggle
and pain to conquer and rule
different sections of this
planet.
Separation,
division, and control
became the dominant
benchmark to gauge
the success of a
civilization, making
it easy to forget how
everything is interconnected.
Most Western maps
have been arranged
around the Prime Meridian
showing the Americas
on the left.
But as the connections
between ancient civilizations
become more apparent, the map
must shift back to the time
where the unification
of the planet
can be seen and felt as the
one divided into the many.
The ice melted, creating new
islands and covering old ones.
As civilization
began rebuilding,
the division on the
planet grew stronger.
Turning back our
celestial clock,
we discover that whatever
label humanity tries
to put on this deluge
period in history,
there are foundational
story points that
connect all to a
very volatile time
on the surface of the planet.
But when the hands of
time go back to the time
before the end of the world, the
clues in archeology and tales
told in heroes' epic journeys
around the planet show
that most civilized
structures eventually fall.
But to uncover the fundamental
ancient knowledge that
ties the whole story
together, the hero
must return back
to the foundations
where the story begins.
[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]